







_Andro, First Liaison Officer of the Third Planet, floated homeward
with his wife's "present" beside him. His boat, pulled by an underwater
sunburst of luminous fish, befitted a man of importance, a man of
prestige and position. He glided past the milk-glass city where the
old ones rocked and crooned before memory pools, where sticky huddles
of children listened to the lyre-flowers, and where the glances of
silver-eyed men and women examined, and met--and held fast. He drifted
to his home on the ledge of a mountain, where he was met by his wife
with her plain, good face. And she looked at the "present," who stood
behind him, and shivered...._

       *       *       *       *       *

Mya, the Earth One, rose as her companion prepared to go. She glanced
at the valley below. Fingers of twilight inquired into its sands for
the first, soft dying of day.

"It's simply too glorious, isn't it?" Her guest's voice clawed at
irritation.

"I suppose so," she shrugged. The sleepy perfumes of the lagoon offered
her its feather boats--curling, amber-crusted reminders of lost autumn
leaves at home. The mountain, ripped from a vortex of sky, was kindling
its transparent crags with an inner glow. Like cracked ice in a cool
glass, she thought, and her fingertips reached for the forgotten chill.

Why did she hate it so? This washed, blue world that had mothered Maun,
and perhaps others made of the same substance?

"Goodness, my dear! How can you look at that marvelous scenery and be
so luke-warmish?"

"I don't know." Her face turned skyward. "It's up there I think. We've
been here six Earth-months and haven't had one glimpse of the sun." The
churning clouds sucked upon themselves in answer.

"And you never will," her comrade chirped. "That's Venus for you. But
you knew that, darling, when you came."

"Only the words. The words, I knew. But the feeling waits for you
outside the words."

The other woman laughed, plucking daintily for her wrap. "You
_are_ in a fret today, Mya."

"Those clouds must go from here to the day after eternity. I sometimes
wonder if the sun is still out there."

"Well really, dear girl! To hear you talk, a person would think this
was a very trying place, instead of a perfectly exquisite planet. In
spite of a ten-day rotation period--"

"That too," sighed Mya. "That too. I remember when I was a little girl
and my nurse made me nap in the daytime. I thought she was always
there, watching me from some place I didn't know about. I feel that way
during the sleep periods here."

Somewhere a wind-clock breathed its warning of the time.

"Gracious!" the guest started. "I didn't realize how long I've been
here."

"Yes."

"And your poor baby! I'd forgotten about Dikki! He must be ravenous."

"I'll feed him right away."

"How is the little angel?"

"Eats like a horse, sleeps like a rock."

"How healthy of him!" She fluttered again over her misplaced wrap.
"Which is more than I can say for you, pet. Has Andro been taking care
of you?"

"Just marvelous care."

"Dear Andro."

Mya would not look at her. "Yes, dear Andro."

"Well, I must be toddling. Now where _did_ I put my stole?"

    